members of the Communications Workers of
America Local 70 304 welcome Vice
President Joe Biden and members of the
administration's middle class task force
to their workplace the new flier bus
company plan the town meeting
highlighted how the economy can be
revitalized not only by green
technologies but by fairly paid workers
who have a voice on the job advantages a
union provides under the roof of a true
American success story is story about a
company that omit all all the economic
turmoil all the downturn has in fact
been able to not shut down but raise up
able to have add to your ranks another
hundred employees last year and as my
grandfather would say with the grace of
God that good will the neighbors gonna
add a lot more employees one company
that seizing opportunities is New Flyer
Industries our host today and a major
economic presence in the Saint Cloud
area the company employs 650 workers
here as well as 300 more in Crookston
new flyer is not only the leading
manufacturer of heavy-duty transit
vehicles in Canada in the United States
it's also a leader in transit innovation
and low emission alternative fuel
vehicles the company has prepared for
the future which has allowed it to
continue growing despite the current
economy let me tell you a little about
this great story called New Flyer
we trace our roots back seventy-nine
years some very very exciting things and
also some difficult times over the years
but in the end and now New Flyer has
built over 20,000 buses since 1930
last year alone we delivered two
thousand one hundred and sixty-four
buses up eight percent from the previous
year
we have the leadership of our local
labor partners the Communication Workers
of America and specifically our local
president Dave Rock it's me it's a
wonderful thing for the Union to be part
of this wonderful growth that we have a
new Flair
that's the requested workers the
management of the st. cloud plant agreed
to forego the lengthy and often
contentious national labor relations
board elections process and instead
agreed to recognize the Union if a
majority of employees sign cards asking
the CWA to represent them lena bought
2002 CWA
was missing the recognize a new flyer
because new fire pretty much opened up
the door to us and said come on in
realizing that you know we work very
well in the Crookston plant and we had a
pretty good long-term relationship with
them there it was this voluntary
recognition they you know got
result you got 50% you know plus-one the
people signed up and everything was
certified it was it was done with them
and we were getting so it's a very easy
process the company stayed totally
neutral throughout the process and and
certainly knew that again what we had in
Crookston not they to bring it into here
you know we pretty much got the same
contract that they did as a first
contract and anybody I'll tell you this
negotiated contracts but just doesn't
happen so it was a real good venture and
we're real proud to be part of New Flyer
most workers in the United States would
be able to join unions through majority
signup just as the new flyer workers did
if Congress passes the employee Free
Choice Act certainly the with a place
free choice act I mean to move forward
with that I think more employers will
find out that this is a good thing for
everybody it gives people the right to
choose why feeling toward you you know I
wasn't real sure about what it was and
how it worked but then that's how I got
involved I says you know if this is
going to work for me
and
get involved and that's how I came to be
where I'm at right now
to get involved in what was going on
here and from there it's just taken off
even when we're having these kind of
economic problems because in fact the
union's never been a liability it's been
an asset and that's why we've managed to
you know do what we're doing today to
have these kind of things when everybody
else is failing
it's the professionalism it's the
camaraderie and it's the members that
continue to make those buses roll off
adorable so you know rather than a
really good
run here we are disagreements from time
to time but it doesn't ever get in the
way of production we work well together
labor-management is a wonderful thing -
we have labor-management meetings here
at New Flyer st. cloud once a month and
also up in Kirsten
and along with develop safety committees
the safety is number one and in fire and
try to first as my second is today we're
in an enviable position in our economy
and our challenging times to be one of a
handful of companies that is not only
retaining jobs but is hiring people a
hundred new jobs alone just here in
Minnesota in past year a lot of
employers for one thing they don't
understand you use don't understand and
and I think because of that there's the
fear but once they realize what unions
can do and the success stories I think
there's more of them that be more
willing to try this thing the president
I we know what we're really here here
our troubles and that's with women and
men like the people assembled here being
able to have the opportunity to have a
decent paying job it's all about jobs
and whether or not we're going to be
able to have an economy in the 21st
century that generates jobs that are not
just just jobs for example during the
industrial revolution we generated a lot
of jobs in the late 19th and early 20th
century but it wasn't until we had
minimum basic human rights and
requirements and decency attached to how
those jobs had to be compensated
it wasn't until quite frankly we had a
union movement it wasn't in quite
frankly
we set new standards that they became
good jobs you needs only help everybody
because not only does it help the
community brings in more money it brings
in more professional people that wanna
work I mean how can it be bad if you've
got good personnel bringing in good
money we're getting a clean
do you know wrong